UPGRADE.md, before:

UPGRADE FROM 1.x to 2.0
=======================

Configuration
-------------

* The JWT authentication system has been deprecated in favor of a Guard authenticator  
  called `JWTTokenAuthenticator`.  
  By the way, the security configuration has been simplified. Most of the options that was  
  set from the JWT-secured firewall configuration have been moved to the bundle configuration,  
  keeping the same names and default values.
  
  __Removed security options__
  - `create_entry_point`: The new authenticator being an entry point after all, this option doesn't bring any value anymore.  
  If a firewall allows anonymous, the entry point will not be called at all, letting the request continue.  
  If it doesn't, the entry point will dispatch a `on_jwt_not_found` event that can be subscribed to customize the default failure response that will be returned by the entry point.
  - `throw_exceptions`: This option doesn't make sense anymore as the exceptions thrown during the authentication process are needed, involving call of the good method in the good time, dispatching the good events, so a custom response can be easily set, as its content no more depends on the exception thrown.
  - `authentication_provider` and `authentication_listener`: It's now part of the authenticator role, simplifiying a lot the corresponding code that can now be found in only one place.

  __Before__

  ```yaml
  # app/config/security.yml
  firewalls:
      api:
          lexik_jwt:
              authorization_header:
                  # ...
              cookie:
                  # ...
              query_parameter:
                  # ...
              throw_exceptions: false
              create_entry_point: true
              authentication_provider: lexik_jwt_authentication.security.authentication.provider
              authentication_listener: lexik_jwt_authentication.security.authentication.listener
  ```

  __After__

  ```yaml
  # app/config/security.yml
  firewalls:
      api:
          guard:
              authenticators:
                  - lexik_jwt_authentication.jwt_token_authenticator

  # app/config/config.yml
  lexik_jwt_authentication:
      # ...
      token_extractors:
          authorization_header:
              # ...
          cookie:
              # ...
          query_parameter:
              # ...
  ```
Events
-------

* The ability of retrieving `Request` instances from `Event` classes has been removed,
  as the current `Request` is no more injected into when they are dispatched.  
  Being able to access them was mainly useful for doing stuff depending on informations 
  retrieved from.  
  Fortunately, you can reproduce the same behaviour in a more efficient way:

  __Before__
  
  ```yaml
  services:
      jwt_event_listener:
          class: AppBundle\EventListener\JWTCreatedListener
          tags:
              - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: lexik_jwt_authentication.on_jwt_created, method: onJWTCreated }
  ```
  
  ```php
  use Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Event\JWTCreatedEvent;
  
  class JWTCreatedListener
  {
      public function onJWTCreated(JWTCreatedEvent $event)
      {
          $request = $event->getRequest();
      }
  }
  ```
  
  __After__
  
  ```yaml
  services:
      jwt_event_listener:
          class: AppBundle\EventListener\JWTCreatedListener
          arguments: [ '@request_stack' ]
          tags:
              - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: lexik_jwt_authentication.on_jwt_created, method: onJWTCreated }
  ```
  
  ```php  
  use Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Event\JWTCreatedEvent;
  use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\RequestStack;

  class JWTCreatedListener
  {
      private $requestStack;
      
      public function __construct(RequestStack $requestStack)
      {
          $this->requestStack = $requestStack;
      }
      
      public function onJWTCreated(JWTCreatedEvent $event)
      {
          $request = $this->requestStack->getCurrentRequest();
      }
  }
  ```

Encoder
-------

* The service `lexik_jwt_authentication.jwt_encoder` has been removed in favor  
  of `lexik_jwt_authentication.encoder.default` that supports OpenSSL and  
  phpseclib encryption engines.
  
* The class `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Encoder\JWTEncoder` has been  
  removed in favor of `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Encoder\DefaultEncoder`.

  It was used by the `lexik_jwt_authentication.jwt_encoder` service that has been removed.  
  
* The `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Encoder\JWTEncoderInterface` has been changed,  
  the `encode` and `decode` methods now throw exceptions rather than returning `false`  
  in case of error.

KeyLoader
---------

* The `lexik_jwt_authentication.openssl_key_loader` has been removed  
  in favor of `lexik_jwt_authentication.key_loader`.

* The class `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Services\OpenSSLKeyLoader` has been  
  removed in favor of `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Services\KeyLoader\OpenSSLKeyLoader`.
  
  It was used by the `lexik_jwt_authentication.openssl_key_loader` that has been removed.
  
Command
-------

* The `lexik:jwt:check-open-ssl` command has been renamed to `lexik:jwt:check-config`  
  as the bundle now supports several encryption engines.

Commit message:

Depreciate JWTManagerInterface in favor of AuthenticatableJWTManagerInterface
Refactor TokenExtractor' introducing a TokenExtractorMap for lazy loaded extractors and easy override

CS Fixes

Fix conflicts after rebasing 217

Try unexclude group legacy from test suite

UPGRADE.md, after:

UPGRADE FROM 1.x to 2.0
=======================

Configuration
-------------

* The JWT authentication system has been deprecated in favor of a Guard authenticator  
  called `JWTTokenAuthenticator`.  
  By the way, the security configuration has been simplified. Most of the options that was  
  set from the JWT-secured firewall configuration have been moved to the bundle configuration,  
  keeping the same names and default values.
  
  __Removed options__
  - `create_entry_point`: The new authenticator being an entry point after all, this option doesn't bring any value anymore.  
  If a firewall allows anonymous, the entry point will not be called at all, letting the request continue.  
  If it doesn't, the entry point will dispatch a `on_jwt_not_found` event that can be subscribed to customize the default failure response that will be returned by the entry point.
  - `throw_exceptions`: This option doesn't make sense anymore as the exceptions thrown during the authentication process are needed, involving call of the good method in the good time, dispatching the good events, so a custom response can be easily set, as its content no more depends on the exception thrown.
  - `authentication_provider` and `authentication_listener`: It's now part of the authenticator role, simplifiying a lot the corresponding code that can now be found/overrided from one place.

  __Before__

  ```yaml
  # app/config/security.yml
  firewalls:
      api:
          lexik_jwt:
              authorization_header: ~
              cookie: ~
              query_parameter: ~
              throw_exceptions: false
              create_entry_point: true
              authentication_provider: lexik_jwt_authentication.security.authentication.provider
              authentication_listener: lexik_jwt_authentication.security.authentication.listener
  ```

  __After__

  ```yaml
  # app/config/security.yml
  firewalls:
      api:
          guard:
              authenticators:
                  - lexik_jwt_authentication.jwt_token_authenticator

  # app/config/config.yml
  lexik_jwt_authentication:
      # ...
      token_extractors:
          authorization_header: ~
          cookie: ~
          query_parameter: ~
  ```
Events
-------

* The ability of retrieving `Request` instances from `Event` classes has been removed,
  as the current `Request` is no more injected into when they are dispatched.  
  Being able to access them was mainly useful for doing stuff depending on informations 
  retrieved from.  
  Fortunately, you can reproduce the same behaviour in a more efficient way:

  __Before__
  
  ```yaml
  services:
      jwt_event_listener:
          class: AppBundle\EventListener\JWTCreatedListener
          tags:
              - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: lexik_jwt_authentication.on_jwt_created, method: onJWTCreated }
  ```
  
  ```php
  use Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Event\JWTCreatedEvent;
  
  class JWTCreatedListener
  {
      public function onJWTCreated(JWTCreatedEvent $event)
      {
          $request = $event->getRequest();
      }
  }
  ```
  
  __After__
  
  ```yaml
  services:
      jwt_event_listener:
          class: AppBundle\EventListener\JWTCreatedListener
          arguments: [ '@request_stack' ]
          tags:
              - { name: kernel.event_listener, event: lexik_jwt_authentication.on_jwt_created, method: onJWTCreated }
  ```
  
  ```php  
  use Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Event\JWTCreatedEvent;
  use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\RequestStack;

  class JWTCreatedListener
  {
      private $requestStack;
      
      public function __construct(RequestStack $requestStack)
      {
          $this->requestStack = $requestStack;
      }
      
      public function onJWTCreated(JWTCreatedEvent $event)
      {
          $request = $this->requestStack->getCurrentRequest();
      }
  }
  ```

Encoder
-------

* The service `lexik_jwt_authentication.jwt_encoder` has been removed in favor  
  of `lexik_jwt_authentication.encoder.default` that supports OpenSSL and  
  phpseclib encryption engines.
  
* The class `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Encoder\JWTEncoder` has been  
  removed in favor of `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Encoder\DefaultEncoder`.

  It was used by the `lexik_jwt_authentication.jwt_encoder` service that has been removed.  
  
* The `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Encoder\JWTEncoderInterface` has been changed,  
  the `encode` and `decode` methods now throw exceptions rather than returning `false`  
  in case of error.

KeyLoader
---------

* The `lexik_jwt_authentication.openssl_key_loader` has been removed  
  in favor of `lexik_jwt_authentication.key_loader`.

* The class `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Services\OpenSSLKeyLoader` has been  
  removed in favor of `Lexik\Bundle\JWTAuthenticationBundle\Services\KeyLoader\OpenSSLKeyLoader`.
  
  It was used by the `lexik_jwt_authentication.openssl_key_loader` that has been removed.
  
Command
-------

* The `lexik:jwt:check-open-ssl` command has been renamed to `lexik:jwt:check-config`  
  as the bundle now supports several encryption engines.

Security
--------

* The `JWTManagerInterface` has been deprecated in favor of a new `AuthenticatableJWTManagerInterface` 
  implementing two new methods: `setUserIdentityField` and `getUserIdentityField`.
  These methods were already implemented by the JWTManager class in 1.x but not guaranteed
  by the old interface.
